The Joe Rogan experience, it.
Seems like trying to enact change is so
difficult that when actual change happens,
it's one of the reasons why it happens in such a big way.
It's like there was so many people bounding at the wall and pounding at this
wall that when boom, when the George Floyd protest broke through,
then all of a sudden it's, we've got real change.
Let's take down these statues and light everything on fire.
And there's this feeling of change and of chaos.
That is also representative of the fact that it takes so long to turn our
cultural battleship. It's like to actually get a real turn is so.
Hard. It's so everything stays the same, no matter how mad people get.
That turn. Even at that point, that's still the easy part.
The easy part like this,
not going to get fixed by HBO max pulling, gone with the wind. Like,
like when you pull a movie,
nobody was planning on watching on a streaming service.
Nobody can find like we're still at the symbolic stage.
We're still doing the that is symbolic when,
and this is where leadership becomes such a crucial component.
So you have this great awakening of energy.
It has to be channeled into something lasting and meaningful.
And we have to diagnose the real problem underlying
this moment so that we don't make a mistake and just changing the window
dressing and, and the gilding on the buildings.
And this has to be,
this has to be foundational in a way that
will create something lasting. And that's, that's the hard part seems.
Like the shift is big enough that something's going to happen in that regard.
It just seems like this shift is nothing like anything we've ever seen in our
lifetime. And it's worldwide, which is really crazy.
Like the George Floyd deaths sparked all these protests worldwide,
which has really never happened before with anything that really has taken place
in America.
And it just seems like there was also a lot of frustration during the bailout
period of, of the COVID crisis,
that all these corporations were getting so much money that people got one
$1,200 check. And then, then there was no more talk and that this.
You don't know where the money, you know,
there's really no accountability even for where that money went. Right.
That's a great point, Joe, because that's,
so that's what I'm talking about by structural change. Like,
I feel like in this moment,
this horrible, uh,
crime and murder sparked something, but what's underlying.
That is not just the racial inequality than the inequities,
but this whole idea of we build our society economically from the top down,
like, that's the that's got to change. Right? You have to, well,
like when, when you talk, when you're in a pandemic, right.
And tens of thousand people are dying. And then we say to ourselves, all right,
well,
who are the essential workers who are the ones that are the fabric of our
society and culture that keep the wheels turning and,
uh, the trains running, like who are those people? Well,
it turns out they're the most poorly compensated people in
our society because we flipped the paradigm.
For some reason, since the eighties, the investor class has gotten,
uh,
the break and the working class has gotten minimized we've we've devalued work
while overvaluing investment.
It does.
I don't think we can have the structural change until we flip that. Like,
man, when people talk about freedom and Liberty,
what's more, uh,
for freedom and Liberty than not having your health insurance tied to your job.
Right.
What kind of freedom do you have to make decisions in your life
when you fear that? If I take a chance, if I go for something,
if I try and change my lot in life,
my kids will no longer be covered by, uh,
like all the things that we built up to accept.
I think we have to turn it over and it has to lean more
people should be able to have like a dignity.
You should be able to work a job and not be poor.
You should have a working job and not need food stamps. Like that's where we're.
We spent how much in this pandemic, like $3 trillion,
something like that, 4 trillion,
something along those lines who knows if a hundred million of it went to Coca
Cola. Like we have no idea. Right.
But you got 80 bus drivers in New York who were dead
because they had to keep going in the Panda. Yeah.
I think you're making a really good point about what's essential as well. Uh,
when w when we found out that what the essential workers are, right.
People who work at supermarkets, um, people build homes,
like all these.
Essential jobs bunker down. Yes. Can't afford to. Right.
You're putting yourself in, you know, it's funny.
I was talking in front of mine and DG, who is, uh, you know,
he was really like grievously wounded, uh, in war. Right.
And I, we saw, we were talking about like Corona virus. And I was like,
I feel like I'm in danger when I go out.
Yeah. Welcome to being downrange. Like, you know what I mean?
It's just not, it's not something that we,
as Americans would ever consider our lives,
where we're really sheltered in a lot of ways to what
rate a vast majority of the world faces, but also what a vast majority,
our own citizens space in terms of having lives that lives,
that they feel are built on sand as opposed to Brannon.
And so his point was like, yeah, you know,
that's what it feels like when you're in a war. But I signed up for that,
but like bus drivers and grocery store orders, like they had to decide,
like,
I need this money more than I need to protect my life.
And maybe the health of my family,
what a terrible position to have to be in and unprecedented.
And we're ill-prepared for it.
And it really did highlight what's essential though,
which is good back to your point about this idea of income equality.
Like people will balk at that. Like, Hey, this is a game.
If you want to figure it out, figure out how to make more money,
invest and do this and become a banker.
And you up and you wanted to be an artist or you up and you wanted to be a,
a carpenter. You should have been, uh, you know, whatever. And,
but what they don't understand or don't consider is when
hits the fan, like it did with the COVID crisis, you recognize like, Hey,
all that stuff is nonsense. If someone doesn't take out the garbage,
all that stuff is nonsense. If you don't have health care,
all that stuff is not, none of that money means anything.
If the fabric of society deteriorates to a point where literally everybody has
to stay in their home and you can't work, and that's what happened.
And it really flipped the whole thing on its head, because we,
we had to consider survival.
We had to really consider survival instead of just existence. We were saying,
oh my God,
we have to protect ourselves from this viral viral
attack.
And what it makes you realize is how much money it takes
to ante up to the American way of life. What I mean by that is like,
if you want to buy, if you just want to buy into play a hand, right?
What's your antique. Well, now they say you got to go to college.
So you're talking about a $200,000 auntie to get in the
game.
Right.
To get a job when you get out where you're not going to make a fraction of that
every year. So you're going to be behind the eight ball for the rest of.
Your life. Right now, think about, you know, uh, black people,
not being able to build equity and wealth through generations,
you know, government policy that excluded them from, you know,
from whether it's the homestead act of the federal housing administration or the
GI bill, you know, all these government interventions,
socialism, if you will, entitlements, if you will,
were made to help white families build equity, right over generations,
blind people were explicitly excluded from that.
So add that on top of the amount of money that you go in and you start to see
the hole that we've dug for people.
And if we don't address that whole,
I don't care how many comedy sketches we pull and how many things
go like we've, we're not anything. Yeah. We haven't.
Addressed the hole that exists from being 150 years removed from slavery,
which is crazy. That's not, that's a blink in time.
It's nothing.
And how crazy is it that like, and you always,
I always hear it from like the bug people. They're like the George Floyd thing.
Yeah. That was terrible. But as soon as they say the bottom, I'm like, no, no,
but no, but he wasn't an angel. No,
but you know what? Doesn't matter.
And when you're upset that people are pulling on Confederate statues,
like people have been begging for that since they got th th those things got put
up in the 1920s to really lock in Jim Crow.
Like those things, aren't there. They're not memorials to the dead.
They're hate geography to a war for slavery.
Like what? We shot the movie down south man. So I saw these monuments.
You would think, they would say like, here's a statue of a robbery, leave this
to keep people slaves.
And then we built this thing in the twenties to make black people kind of afraid
so that they knew they couldn't take it. But it doesn't say that this,
this great man, like,
of course people are going to pull them down because they've been begging for us
to do something about it for a hundred years.
So the origins of those,
a lot of those statues were actually put up during the civil rights movement.
And they're cheaply made.
They were put up as a middle finger to the civil rights.
Movement. No, no question. But,
but we need something.
I like there has to be a process.
I always think about like what South Africa did.
There has to be a painful led process that allows us,
because I still think to this day, and I don't know how,
how your experience with this is, but like,
I still think there's a large swath of, you know,
white people in society who feel like they blame black people for not
being able to get out of this hole that we put them in or that
the government put them in.
But they think it's a problem of culture and virtue like, Hey man,
if they would just, uh, pull the pants up and, uh, talk different, you know,
they wouldn't have such a hard time. Hey, why don't you just work harder? Well,
that's a.
It's a ridiculous perspective. And it's also not based.
You don't have anyone who would think like that.
Doesn't understand how human beings develop and grow. If you have someone.
It's widespread. Yeah.
It's, it's, it's a dangerous narrative.
Whenever you blame people for their circumstances.
If their circumstances are grossly out of their control and really severely
limit their progress.
And that exists also for if you want to talk about coal mining populations in
the tacos, it's the same.
It's people that we don't all start out at the same starting block.
So all you pull yourself up by your own bootstrap,
you're lucky have arms, okay. There's people out there are born with no arms.
Like we should all be thinking of ourselves in this country as a
community, not as a bunch of people in competition with each other,
we're all piling our money together. Every year,
we throw our taxes into the mix to try to take care of the infrastructure and
the government and the housing and all the,
all the different things to get paid for by our taxes. We're a community man.
And we're not thinking like a community.
We're thinking like a bunch of people that don't want other people to
have the same shot in.
Life. That's a good, I think you struck on something though.
That's very important in all this. And that is
a theory of limited resources,
like the conflict between what you would consider,
like the, the more nativist wing of American politics. And,
and the more progressive side is this idea of resource
guarding. Yeah. We're going to, they're going to take, I work my off.
I play by the rules and they're going to take all my labor and they're going to
pour it into these people.
And I do think we have to address that idea that like
we're here to build equity. Let's all get together.
And the project of this next generation is to build a
stronger foundation,
a granite bearing for everyone to stand on.
So that there's a few people standing on Mount Everest and everybody else's in
sand and sand.
Isn't the way that we run the society and think of these programs,
not as entitlements,
but investments in dignity of work and
start building that up. Well,
food stamps and welfare start to go away because we're building something
more substantial.
We built a great middle-class in the fifties for white people.
We have to do the same now for the country and for,
and also reassure, you know,
people who are resentful of that,
that they're not being left behind either that nobody is saying,
and your lives are cake. And it's not.
Like it's going to change your life that much either, man, this,
this mentality that, oh, Bernie Sanders,
like when I was a supporter of Bernie Sanders, when he was running,
I got pushback from people that were like, uh,
so you want to give your hard earned money,
more of it away to the government.
And you think the government is going to solve this. My perspective was,
if you just looked at it this way, if you could give, let's just get crazy.
If you could give 25% more money to taxes,
but the world would be 50% better, right? Wouldn't you want to invest in that?
Like, I understand that people are checked to check. I understand.
But if people like me and people that earn a good amount of
money are the ones who are going to be hit the hardest.
If you wanted a better world,
wouldn't you be willing to invest some of your money into that better world.
And if that money goes to making sure that no one has to do this in the future,
and that we, we develop this better communities,
better communities in these places that have been for decades, you want,
you don't want that. You don't want a better world for your children.
You want to, you don't want to save her. Well,
what do you want to do die with all this money in the bank? Like, it's crazy.
It's a question of, you know,
when you look at the greatest anti-poverty program we've ever put in place in
social security.
Now the flip side of that is what they'll say is that the problem with some of
this is they don't trust the mechanism by which that money is going to be
invested. Right? Of course, because they've been sold to some extent,
a little bit of a lie that, that this trickle down theory.
So every administration that comes in is going to stimulate the economy.
They all do it. We don't have a free market.
The fed right now is driving so much money into stocks.
You're talking about zero interest rates, negative interest rates, right.
They're driving everything away from bonds and savings
so that the stock market, which for some reason,
we've come to look at like a pulse oximeter of the nation,
which it's not it's, you know, oh my God, we lost 300 Dow's today. Like,
we've come to look at it. Like, it's our temperature. Yeah.
So everybody's going to stimulate the economy. So what did,
what let's look at what Trump did. So a $1.5 trillion tax cut, right?
Overwhelmingly though it went to people who already have ton of money.
And then we cut the corporate tax rate from a hundred.
I think it was 35 down to 21. Right?
Supposedly they were going to reinvest it, but they mostly did buybacks.
So they're increasing their investor wealth through that as well.
So you're talking about trillions of dollars of stimulus,
right? That are just going to that same theory,
take those trillion dollars and let's invest.
Let's stimulate the economy, but not from up there, from down here, let's do,
let's take that and Marshall plan our
country and,
and build it so that it's sturdy on the legs. You know, you know,
you were a fighter starting on the legs. If you're not starting on the legs,
you got nothing. My.
Idea is we should get Dick Cheney involved and we should hire Halliburton to fix
up the inner cities. Like it did all the places we bombed in Iraq.